📒 Abstract
Image classification is the foundation of nearly all computer-vision pipelines. While state-of-the-art models excel within their training domains, their performance often deteriorates when transferred to a new, unlabeled setting. Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) tackles this challenge by repurposing a well-trained source classifier for a target domain, allowing strong downstream results without the need for additional labeled data.Existing UDA pipelines fine-tune already well-trained backbone parameters for every new source-and-target pair, making the number of training parameters and storage memory grow linearly with each new pair, and also preventing the reuse of these well-trained backbones' parameters.
Inspired by recent implications that existing backbones have textural biases, we propose making use of domain-specific textural bias for domain adaptation via visual reprogramming, namely VirDA.Instead of fine-tuning the full backbone, VirDA prepend a domain-specific visual reprogramming layer to the backbone. This layer produces visual prompts that act as an added textual bias to the input image, adapting its "style" to a target domain. To optimize these visual reprogramming layers, we use multiple objective functions that optimize the intra- and inter-domain distribution differences when domain-adapting visual prompts are applied. This process does not require modifying the backbone parameters, allowing the same backbone to be reused across different domains.
We evaluate VirDA on the Office-31 dataset, where VirDA achieves 86.80% mean accuracy. In comparison with FixBi, the state-of-the-art UDA method that uses the same backbone, VirDA requires only 4.04% of the amount of parameters while exhibiting less than 5% performance drop. Furthermore, on both Office-31 and Office-Home, VirDA consistently outperforms MSTN and DANN while using only 3.56% of the amount of trainable parameters. We release VirDA's source code tentatively.
